.
- In the criminal justice
system,
sexually based offenses
are considered
especially heinous.
In New York City,
the dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known as
the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
- Case 1708.
The complainant is Mia Marino,
the alleged perpetrator,
Ethan Hartley.
- Respondent.
- Not perpetrator.
Respondent.
- Respondent.
Ethan Hartley.
Mia, can you tell the tribunal
what happened
on the night
of December 9, 2017?
- Ethan and I ran into each
other at a party on campus.
We both had a lot to drink.
We decided to go back
to my dorm.
And, um...
- Hold on.
What are you telling me,
Teresa?
That
When?
- December.
She was drunk,
woke up,
boy was on top of her.
It was a mess.
A complete mess.
Why didn't you tell me
about this?
- The university's handling it.
There's a hearing right now.
Mia didn't want
the police involved.
- Mia didn't want
the police involved?
She's 18 years old, Teresa.
You should have called me.
- I'm trying to trust
her judgment.
Be a better parent.
Mom and Dad?
Does--does Tony know
about this?
- No.
It's not like we talk.
We're divorced 15 years.
- He's still Mia's father,
Teresa.
And I'm her uncle.
I'm a cop, for God's sake.
Where is this hearing?
Is it somewhere on campus?
- I don't want you
making things worse.
- Then why'd you even
call me?
- Because...
I'm scared to death.
They don't let parents in.
Mia's alone, talking about
being sexually assaulted
in a room full of strangers.
- I'm here now.
So who is this bastard?
- We were sitting on her bed.
We were kissing.
We were both kissing.
- She didn't pull away.
She kissed me back.
- And then you had
sexual contact
that was not consensual.
- I don't remember.
But I--I'm sure I'd never
rape anyone.
- Dean Baldwin,
you skipped one
of the submitted questions.
- In Ms. Marino's
initial statement,
she claims she didn't consent,
but later she said
she didn't remember.
- Mia, did you or did you not
give affirmative consent?
- Go ahead and answer, Mia.
Tell them what you told me.
- No, I did not.
- Having reviewed the evidence,
I am ready to make
my determination.
I find the respondent,
Ethan Hartley, responsible.
- Subject to suspension
for one year,
effective immediately.
You need to pack your dorm
and vacate school property
by 5:00 p.m. today.
- No, but--but I didn't--
you bitch.
What--what--
what is she saying?
You--you can't do this to me!
This can't be happening!
- Hey, Mia's here.
Hey, what happened?
- Mom, Uncle Sonny--
- Oh, hey, it's okay.
- No, it's not.
They suspended him
for a year.
He was so angry.
He yelled and--
and he threatened me.
- I'll take care of this.
- What I would have done
in the first place.
Open up a police investigation
and arrest this son of a bitch.
*
This case is complicated,
and we just want to make sure
that we're not missing
anything.
- The sexual assault happened
three months ago
at Hudson University.
The victim never went
to the police.
It was handled internally
by the school.
- So there's no rape kit.
You know,
untrained investigators,
but Hudson University
did find the male student
responsible.
- The guy was only suspended.
For a year.
And he made threats.
I think he's a danger
to the victim.
Who, full disclosure,
is, um...
She's my 18-year-old niece.
- Good to know.
Anything else?
- Yeah, I believe her.
And the school did too.
- Okay.
But despite Betsy DeVos,
New York's "Enough Is Enough"
law is still on the books?
- It is.
- Under Title IX,
the school only needs
preponderance of evidence
to convict.
The state needs
beyond a reasonable doubt.
We understand that.
- Good.
I've heard enough.
You're leaving?
- I'm going to get you
a subpoena
for the tribunal transcripts.
It's a start until you can
get me enough evidence
to charge rape.
Lieutenant.
Detective Carisi, I'm sorry for
what happened to your niece.
- So is this where you tell me
I'm off the case?
- Officially, yes.
And unofficially...
Don't screw it up.
- Thank you, Lieutenant.
- Counselor.
- Hey, Detective.
I spoke with Antonio Dawson
this morning.
He sends his regards.
- Okay, that's my man.
Tell him I said hi.
- I'll do that.
- He seems like an okay dude.
- I think he should go back
to Chicago.
- It's not his fault Barba
pulled the plug on that baby.
Just saying.
- Lieutenant Benson,
it's so nice to meet you.
Sonny thinks the world of you.
- Stop.
- Well, the feeling's mutual.
- I guess so,
getting involved with this.
You must be so busy.
- Well, I just hope
I can help your daughter.
So, Mia, uh,
can I talk to you alone?
- It happened three months ago.
Isn't it too late for this?
- No, it's not.
Just tell Lieutenant Benson
the truth.
Whatever you can remember.
- Okay.
I didn't know Ethan that well.
He was more friends
with my roommate, Renata.
- Uh-huh.
- But I invited him to my room.
- That's okay, that's okay.
I'm gonna--
- Yeah, that's fine.
- So, Mia,
why don't you tell me
what you do remember, okay?
- Okay.
- Just tell me what happened.
- Um...
Well, we--we sat on my bed.
We kissed a few times.
And--and then he just--
he just got on top of me.
I could--
I could feel him.
He was, um, ready.
- No.
It happened so fast.
He put his tongue in my mouth.
I was choking.
I pushed him away, but...
but before I knew
what was happening,
he was inside me.
- Okay.
So, Mia, did you--
did you actually say no?
- I--I think so.
I definitely said, "Wait,"
and I pushed him off me.
And then he just--
he got all mad,
and he just left.
- Well, if you didn't consent,
then that is rape.
- You're saying my son
might be arrested?
He didn't rape her.
He was railroaded.
- We just want to ask
a few questions.
- I told you,
her uncle is a cop.
- We're not making
any prejudgments.
We just want to hear
Ethan's side.
- He told the school.
They didn't listen.
They suspended him.
He had to pack up
his dorm room.
He's banned from campus.
He can't even go to class.
- We're going to appeal,
believe me.
- Well, we have to let you know
this is now an open
police investigation.
- We'll be calling
a lawyer this time.
- This is crazy.
I--I didn't even want
to hook up with Mia.
I only went to her room because
I thought Renata
would be there.
- Mia's roommate.
- Stop talking, Ethan, now.
And you two can leave.
- They're his parents.
What do you expect them to say?
I think we should
talk to the roommate
and call Carisi.
- It's his niece.
I'm calling him.
- I was shocked to hear
what Ethan did.
This is so horrible for Mia.
- Renata, when did she tell you
what had happened?
- The next day.
No, the day after.
I was skiing in Vermont
with my parents.
- Yeah.
And our RA, Hillary,
told me that Ethan had been
in the dorm.
She saw him and Mia
kissing in the hall.
- Okay, so what exactly
did Mia tell you?
- Well, I asked her what Ethan
was even doing in our room.
And then she just
started crying,
and she said she didn't
want to have sex,
and he had forced her.
- Okay, so after you asked her
about Ethan,
that's when she told you
she was raped?
- Yeah.
I can't believe I ever
went out with him.
I thought he was one
of the nice guys.
Nontoxic.
I'm sorry,
I have to get to class.
- Yeah.
- Sure, thank you.
So Mia didn't disclose
to her roommate
until after she was asked
about Ethan.
- Well, so--I don't--
maybe nothing.
Or...
What--what, are you saying you
think my niece made this up?
- No, that's not
what I'm saying.
But you know, we both know
that these cases
are not black and white.
They're--they're kids.
They're immature.
Sexually inexperienced.
And you throw drinking
into the mix?
- What are you--
what are you saying?
- I'm saying we need to take
a look at the tribunal tapes.
- I saw Ethan and Mia
in the hall.
They were making out.
- Hillary Baker.
She's the resident advisor
in Mia's dorm.
- She saw Mia and Ethan
together.
- Ethan was pretty aggressive.
They were in the room
with the door closed
for about an hour.
- Did you hear her say no
or call for help?
- No.
But when Ethan left,
I went to Mia's door.
I asked if she was okay.
She said she needed a minute,
so I went back to my room.
- Did she tell you
at any point that night
that she had been assaulted?
- No.
But maybe she told
Andy Rayburn,
her neighbor in the dorm.
I saw him leaving her room
the next morning.
- No.
At least, not to me.
- Find out why.
- Usually campus police
handle noise complaints.
- We're just here
to talk to Andy.
It's this one.
- NYPD.
- Hey, hi.
Who are these guys?
- We're the police.
- That sucks.
- We want to talk to you
about Mia Morino.
Why, is she saying
that I raped her too?
*
.
- Mia texted me.
She said she was, um, depressed
and needed to talk.
- Uh, how she was
a terrible person.
That this was all her fault.
I don't--
- Okay, well,
did she talk about Ethan,
or did she say
that she was assaulted?
- No.
- Then why'd you ask us
if Mia said you raped her too?
- My client did nothing wrong,
okay?
We're here to cooperate.
- Okay.
Cooperate.
Answer the question.
- I didn't rape Mia.
We just stayed up
all night talking.
I only asked you guys this
because I heard
she was accusing Ethan.
Okay? You guys said
you were the police,
so I freaked out.
- But why didn't you tell
the university investigator
that you'd been with Mia?
- Because nobody asked me.
Like, I don't know
that she wasn't raped.
- Obviously, if he knew that,
he would have come forward.
- Maybe Mia just
didn't want to tell me.
Maybe she was just waiting
to tweet "Me too" about it
or--or write a short story
for "The New Yorker."
I don't...
I--I used to think
that I understood girls.
I did, but nobody understands
girls anymore.
Like, at all.
- Like Andy said,
none of this means
that Mia wasn't assaulted.
- Another male student
spent the night in her room?
Don't you think that's something
she should have mentioned?
- It's not uncommon
for a victim
to leave out part of her story.
- She was probably embarrassed.
- Okay.
Okay, fair enough.
- You haven't prosecuted a lot
of college-age assaults,
have you?
- Actually, none.
- Okay, so it's rarely
a clean narrative, right?
There can be alcohol involved.
The victim can feel conflicted.
There can be memory loss.
It's--there's self-blame.
It's complicated.
- Okay.
I'll follow your lead.
You'll follow up with Mia?
- Yes, and the RA
and the roommate.
- Listen, don't worry.
We get it.
You need a case
you can prosecute.
- I also need a case
that won't bounce
on a motion to dismiss.
And it wouldn't be a bad idea
to talk to Hudson's
investigator.
- Okay, we're on it.
- He's on a learning curve.
That's--that's great.
- Look,
Stone's a good prosecutor.
- Yeah, maybe in Chicago when
he's dealing with homicides.
But he's in sex crimes now.
It--it's a different world.
- I'm sure that he's aware.
- I didn't tell you about Andy
because...
Because I thought I'd seem
like a slut, okay?
- Okay.
I understand that.
But, Mia, you told Andy
that this was your fault,
and you know
that it's not, right?
- No, it is.
I invited him into my room.
- It doesn't matter.
- Yes, it does!
My whole life,
I have tried to be good,
to make people happy,
like my mother.
To--to say what they
wanted to hear.
- Mia...
Mia, what are you saying?
Are you saying that you...
that you told Ethan what--
what you thought
he wanted to hear?
Hmm?
I don't remember.
Okay?
I don't want to go to trial.
I let my uncle Sonny down.
I never should have told him
anything.
*
- You saying
you don't believe her?
- No, I do.
But a jury might not.
- This boy raped her.
What am I supposed
to tell Mia now?
Thanks for nothing,
Lieutenant.
- Hey, Teresa.
Sorry, my sister's very...
Italian.
- Look, her daughter did
go through a trauma.
- I'm not sure what happened
in that dorm room was assault,
and I'm--
I don't think she's so sure,
either.
She--she's not gonna make
a convincing witness, Carisi.
Because she left out parts
of her story?
Victims do that all the time.
The--the school found
this kid responsible.
- And unless they know
something that we don't,
we may not have a case.
- We're supposed to be happy
'cause the DA's
not filing charges?
- We wanted to let you know
in person.
- We know.
Now you can go.
- Wait.
Did that girl admit she lied?
- No, no, we're not saying
that she lied.
Just that we don't have
enough evidence
to pursue a criminal case.
- Mom, what difference
does it make?
- The police don't have enough.
Maybe the school
will reconsider.
Can you tell them?
- They--they already said that
you're entitled to an appeal.
- I don't want to go
back there.
Everybody thinks I'm a rapist.
- Don't say that, honey.
- I can't go back to Hudson,
and no other school
will accept me
when they find out why I left.
You were so proud of your son,
the future doctor.
Well, that's not happening.
You should get used to it.
- What do you mean,
he's not being charged?
- Teresa, I know
it's not the best outcome,
but the DA doesn't think
we have enough evidence
to go to trial.
He threatened her!
What are you doing
to protect her?
- We can get
a restraining order.
I want him in prison.
Why'd you get involved
if you couldn't help?
Mia, I'm sorry.
You gonna be okay?
- Yeah.
Uncle Sonny, I don't want
Ethan going to prison
or a restraining order
or anything like that.
- Mia, he threatened you.
- Yeah, but he was upset.
Mia, what's going on?
- What--what Ethan did...
He moved too fast,
and I wasn't ready.
I didn't want to...
I said yes.
And then Renata was asking me
about him,
and I didn't want her
to be mad,
so I told her he raped me.
And then she went to the RA,
and then the school
got involved.
And then I couldn't
take it back.
I'm sorry.
- Hold on.
Hold on.
Are you--are you telling me
that you lied?
To the school?
To the police?
Do you know how serious
this is?
- I'm sorry!
- Mia!
It's not me
you should be apologizing to.
It's Ethan.
- I didn't--I never thought
things would go this far.
I never thought he'd get
kicked out of school.
I'm sorry.
I ruined his life.
I don't know what to do.
You make this right.
That's--that's what you do.
Do you understand me?
- Okay.
- Okay, listen.
Listen.
You made a mistake.
I get it.
But you can fix this.
All right?
You can make this right.
It's gonna be okay.
*
- Just because Stone doesn't
think we have enough evidence,
we can keep investigating.
- Yeah.
Yeah, maybe.
Um...
Either way,
my sister's probably never
gonna speak to me again.
- You were just trying
to help her out.
She's got to know that.
- Well, you've obviously
never met my sister.
Hello?
Mia.
Hold on.
What happened?
All right, stay where you are.
I--I'm on my way.
- She won't tell me.
- I'm coming with you.
- She was raped again.
By who?
- She won't tell me.
- Okay, Mia, let--
let's get you to a hospital.
- I need to talk to you.
Alone.
- Yeah, Renata,
let's step outside.
- I tried to make it right.
I--I asked Ethan to come over.
I apologized.
But he said it was too late.
He pushed me on the bed and...
He raped me.
When it was over, he said,
"Now you know what rape
really feels like."
I tried to do what you said,
Uncle Sonny.
I--I tried, I really did.
- I know, I know.
I know you did, I know.
- And now nobody
will believe me.
Yes, they will.
Because--
because we are not
gonna say anything
about what really happened
the first time.
Do you understand?
We're not gonna say anything,
okay?
I'm sorry.
.
- The only reason we're here is
because my client is innocent.
He wants to clear his name.
- We're listening.
- I didn't rape Mia.
We had sex.
- So you expect us to believe
she had consensual sex
with a guy who assaulted her
three months ago.
- I didn't rape her before,
either.
She's setting me up.
- Well, the university
believed her.
They suspended you.
Why would she set you up?
- I don't know.
She was pissed
I didn't go to prison?
Look, I'm telling you,
this whole thing was a setup.
She texted me.
Asked me to come
to her dorm room.
- So you were alone
behind closed doors
with a girl
who made accusations?
- My client's an idiot.
He's no rapist.
- Yeah, you keep saying that.
- She said she wanted
to have sex with me.
That she felt bad.
- Oh, so this is
apology sex now?
- You know, I'm not sensing
a whole lot of goodwill here.
- I'm new to SVU.
But I get that no one
just confesses to rape.
It's too easy to deny
or say she wanted it.
What I'm waiting to hear
is a version of the story
that makes me believe you
over her.
And frankly,
that's not happening.
- I want the truth.
You were angry.
You wanted revenge.
I get that.
You made a mistake
and did something
you now regret.
- All right, nice try.
If he's not under arrest,
let's go.
- He's not under arrest.
- For now.
- No.
But after Mia couldn't remember
the first assault,
the jury might not believe her.
Thanks for meeting me.
- Absolutely.
I, uh, I can't stay for dinner.
All right, thank you.
- Look, what you do--
working full-time
as a lieutenant
and being a single mother--
that must take more energy
than I can imagine.
And you--what I mean is,
you make it look effortless.
- Okay, you don't
have to flatter me.
- I'm just telling you
how I see it.
- Okay.
Carisi's niece is telling
the truth.
Uh, she may have been unclear
the first time,
but the second time,
I believe her.
- I do too.
But she's still
an imperfect witness.
- Welcome to sex crimes.
Look, Stone,
there are no perfect witnesses.
They leave out part
of the story.
They can't remember.
They feel guilty,
change their minds.
They blame themself.
They think it's their fault.
But that's why we're here.
To fight for them.
And the less perfect they are,
the harder we fight.
Look, nobody asks a robbery
or a homicide victim
if she wanted it.
Nobody says, "Hey, why was she
walking down the dark alley?
Why was she wearing
the dark skirt?"
Nobody implies that the crime
was somehow her fault.
- I'm just used
to having more evidence
before I go to trial.
- You have the victim's word.
We go to trial so the victim--
the survivor--
can look her rapist in the eye
and tell the world her truth.
We go to trial
so she can be heard.
The truth,
that's what heals.
If you're going to trial
because--
because you want to win...
You're in the wrong place.
- He's being arraigned.
And if he doesn't make a deal,
then we're gonna go to trial.
- And I'd have to testify.
- Yeah.
What if they ask me
about the first accusation?
I lied, Uncle Sonny.
- Look...
I'm not telling you to perjure
yourself on the stand.
But if nobody asks,
you don't volunteer.
Do you understand?
- No.
No, of course not.
Hey.
The first time I met you,
you were three months old,
and, uh...
you wouldn't smile for me,
no--no matter what I did.
You just stared at me.
You're very serious.
But you were so cute...
That I started smiling.
And then all of a sudden,
like--
like somebody flipped
a light switch,
your face lit up, and--
and you smiled at me.
That was all you needed.
You just wanted me to be happy.
You've always been like that,
Mia.
*
And I promise you,
I'm not gonna let
anything bad happen.
*
Hey, what are you doing?
Come on, would you stop that?
- I'm a nervous wreck,
Dominick.
And it's your fault.
We never should have
gone after Ethan,
gotten the police involved.
Now my daughter's
been raped twice.
- Mia's gonna get through this.
All right, Teresa?
We all will.
- Just fix this!
You got to fix this.
I can't do this alone.
*
.
- Maybe it was stupid,
but I thought we should talk.
- I texted him.
I asked him to come over.
- I never thought...
I mean, there were people
there, and--
- What happened
when he got there, Mia?
- He was mad.
He said I was being selfish.
That I was ruining his life.
He said, "If my life is going
down the toilet,
I'm going to take you with me."
And then he...
He pushed me on the bed.
Pulled my sweats down.
And he, um...
- He held a pillow over my face
so I couldn't scream.
And he forced his penis
into my vagina.
- Thank you, Mia.
- Well, that sounds awful, Mia.
But I'm gonna let that be
for now.
What I want to talk
to you about
is the first time
you cried rape.
- Objection.
- Withdrawn.
Do you think a mere
year suspension
is sufficient punishment
for what you claim
Ethan did to you?
- I didn't know.
I mean, the police thought
he should go to prison.
- And that would be your uncle,
Detective Dominick Carisi?
- Yes.
- Uh, and did Uncle Dom
look into your case?
- Yes.
- Like any good uncle would.
And what did he find?
- He said there wasn't
enough evidence
to pursue a criminal case
against Ethan.
- Well, that's surprising,
don't you think?
I mean, two English professors,
an adjunct sociology professor,
and a grad student
in medieval music
thought he was so guilty,
the college had
to toss his ass--
- Objection.
- You've crossed the line,
Ms. Heller.
- A bunch of unqualified
eggheads destroy a kid's life
on evidence that couldn't pass
a motion to dismiss
in a real court.
No, I think that line
was erased a long time ago.
- You are looking at contempt.
One more outburst...
- You wanted Ethan to go
to prison, didn't you, Mia?
- I don't know.
- Of course you did.
His punishment should fit
his crime.
I mean, he violated you,
for Chrissake.
He should get worse
than living at home,
eating Mommy's pancakes.
- Your Honor.
- And you were gonna make sure
that he spent many, many years
behind bars.
That's why you let him into
the room, isn't that right?
- No.
- You slept with him,
and you cried rape.
I mean, after all,
it happened once.
Who wouldn't believe you
a second time?
Certainly not your uncle,
the detective.
- That is it.
I'm fining you $1,500.
- A small price to pay
for ruining a boy's life.
- Make that $2,000.
- No more questions.
- I treated it like I would any
other case of sexual assault.
I took a victim statement.
- Did Mia identify
her attacker?
- She told me that she'd been
raped by Ethan Hartley.
- I escorted her to
the hospital for an examination
to run a rape kit.
- What were the results
of the rape kit?
- The doctor determined
from the vaginal bruising
that there had been
forcible penetration.
The semen samples collected
were a DNA match
for Ethan Hartley.
- Thank you, Detective.
- Mm-hmm.
- You love your niece,
don't you, Detective?
- Very much.
- Well, that's beautiful.
And I'm guessing
that you felt terrible
that you couldn't help Mia
the first time she claimed
she was raped.
- I did, but I never expected--
- No, no, no, no.
Nobody's blaming you,
Detective.
But the truth is,
if you had arrested Ethan
the first time,
he wouldn't have raped her
the second time.
- The school's investigation
was incomplete.
There was nothing
that I could do.
- Well, let me ask you this.
Did Mia have similar vaginal
bruising after the first rape?
- The school did not perform
a medical examination.
- Was she curled up in a ball,
shivering?
- None of the witnesses
at the school hearing
testified as such.
- 'Cause you would think
that the same guy,
same physical assault--
- Objection.
- Withdrawn.
Did Mia describe the two rapes
to you in the same way?
Let me try this.
Can you tell us what Mia
told you about the first rape?
*
Detective, can you?
- There was no first rape.
- So Mia lied
to the school tribunal?
- Yes.
- She lied
to your fellow officers.
- Yes.
- She lied to this court.
- Yeah.
- I'm done.
We could all go home now.
*
.
- Carisi, in my office.
What the hell
were you thinking?
- I screwed up.
I'm sorry.
She's my niece.
- Then she should have been
honest with you
from the beginning.
She was raped, Lieutenant.
- Carisi...
You know as well as I do
that the only thing
that matters in these cases
is the credibility
of the parties.
And right now,
on the credibility meter,
your niece is hovering
at about a zero.
- I figured you'd be here.
- Is this where you'd find
Mr. Barba?
- That's his seat, actually.
Can I sit down?
- Help yourself.
- All right.
I'm ready.
Let me have it.
You told the truth.
- Yeah, a little late.
- Only an irrational man
acts rational
when family's involved.
We've all got family secrets,
Detective.
The important thing is,
you spoke up when it counted.
- You know, you're not
such a bad guy for a lawyer.
- I do my best.
I hear you've got
the same disease.
- Well, I think
I've been cured.
- Yeah, sure.
Something's got to wash away
this guilt.
Thought I just absolved you.
- Believe me, I got a lot more
weighing on my soul than that.
Can I get one of those, please?
- You know, my old man,
I guarantee
his last thought was,
"I should have opposed
that damn motion to exclude."
- And you don't want that
to be you?
- I want to do the right thing,
sure.
And winning feels
pretty damn good, but...
there's got to be more,
right?
- Must be.
- Let's hope.
- Cheers.
- Yeah.
- Mia started crying.
We both did.
She hugged me
and said she was sorry.
She said that I was strong,
and she wasn't.
She said I could handle it,
but she couldn't.
And then she kissed me
and led me onto the bed.
- A bit of the old
consolation sex?
- Objection.
- Well, what would you call it,
Mr. Stone?
- Mr. Stone is not
on the stand, Counselor.
Continue.
- I slept with her.
- No.
It was her idea.
And now I know why.
- So she could claim
I raped her.
And this time
she'd have evidence,
and her uncle
could lead the charge.
I don't know what I did to you,
Mia.
But I don't deserve this.
- No more questions.
- Tell me, Ethan.
What were you studying
in college?
- I was premed.
- Hmm.
You were going to be a doctor.
- I was.
A neurosurgeon.
But that's gone now.
- You don't think
you'll be acquitted?
You know what?
It doesn't matter.
I'm already wearing
the scarlet R.
My friends won't talk to me.
You know,
since Hudson booted me,
I applied
to six other colleges.
I got 700s on my SATs,
and that wasn't good enough.
Once the PC police
get their fangs into you,
your life in polite society
is over.
- And that's--
that's what happened to you?
- Sure is.
All it takes is one girl
to say you looked at her funny,
and that's it.
Your life's over.
- Yeah, but you did more
than look at Mia funny, Ethan.
Look, that first time
in her dorm,
we were in it together.
You heard what her uncle,
the cop, said.
I didn't rape her.
- You were railroaded.
- That's right.
- And the bleeding hearts
didn't want to hear the truth.
They wouldn't know the truth
if it hit them in the face.
They sit there with
their self-righteous grins,
pointing their fingers at you,
whether you did something wrong
or not.
- And it pisses you off.
- You're damn right, it does.
- And when you went
to Mia's dorm room,
you planned on telling her
just how much
it pissed you off.
- Objection.
- Overruled.
- That damn school,
they wrap themselves
in their political correctness
and their honor code,
only they don't know
the first thing about honor.
- You were accused;
therefore, you were guilty.
- That's right.
I was already labeled a rapist.
What the hell?
I might as well be a rapist.
- And who better to rape
than Mia Marino?
- That's right!
The bitch ruined me,
and I got to ruin her.
*
- Have you reached
a unanimous verdict?
- We have.
- On the sole count
of the indictment,
rape in the first degree,
we find the defendant,
Ethan Hartley, guilty.
- Members of the jury,
thank you for your service.
- It's okay.
We'll appeal.
*
- It's open.
- Oh, sorry.
There's a time for work,
and a time for not work.
- I just wanted to thank you
for not beheading Carisi.
- Well, what good would he be
to anyone without a head?
You're just gonna charm
your way into our hearts?
- It could work.
- Well, we are New York City
police detectives.
We can see through charming.
- Shame.
So, I hear your son's
a ball player.
- He wants to be.
- You let him know I can get
all the Mets tickets he wants.
- You are good.
- You didn't have to.
- Hey, forget it.
Come on.
Give me that.
- Thanks.
So what's gonna happen to him?
- I figure the judge
will give him seven years.
This is all my fault.
- Hey, listen. Mia.
Don't you ever think that.
Whatever you did,
you didn't deserve
what he did to you,
do you understand that?
- Mm-hmm.
- Come on.
So what'd your mom say
about you leaving school?
- She's thrilled.
You didn't tell her.
- When I was 14, she made me
go to class with pneumonia.
- Well,
you deserve some time off.
She'll understand.
- Right.
After she kills me.
- I'll help you
break it to her.
- Then she'll hate you too.
- She's my big sister.
She's supposed to hate me.
- Hey, come here, Mia.
You're gonna be good.
You'll be good.